{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 iAWriterQuattroS-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 An early worry of lockdown and furlough was that a massive increase I home internet usage \'96 particularly video calls and streaming \'96 would cripple networks. Fortunately {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C7D57BC7-3979-4AF6-9892-659E203BE3C7"}}{\fldrslt the majority of people have seen little no change to their internet connection}}, despite increased usage. Unfortunately, as is all too frequently the case, the people hit hardest are those most in need.\
With families at home and competing for bandwidth for school, work and entertainment connections can slow to a crawl, even if the network as a whole is fine. For people on slower connections, either for financial reasons or because there is no alternative, these problems are exacerbated to the point that {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://03EBA389-23FB-4119-A2DB-949BB1F191B7"}}{\fldrslt it is impossible to be productive}}. In fact, the Children\'92s Commissioner estimates that 9% of families don\'92t even have an internet-connected device at home. To paraphrase the Children\'92s Commissioner, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://954B42AE-9AE6-4F72-8073-0C120496BE20"}}{\fldrslt having access is not the same as having 
\i enough
\i0  access}}. The reasons for a degradation in network quality are hard to pin down. Reasons such as fewer available engineers, more devices on a network and servers unable to deal with traffic spikes are all factors that have nothing to do with with your service provider. Regardless, the situation has shone a light on ageing infrastructure and an increasing digital divide.\
The fact that lockdown has made adequate internet access the difference between working and going to school or not is proof enough that the internet has transcended commodity and become an essential utility. Fortunately, the government announced a scheme intended to bridge the digital divide for vulnerable and disadvantaged school students. They have also become increasingly proactive about {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://6F385673-B846-4A4B-A7EC-1119B09F9FE5"}}{\fldrslt rolling out improved broadband connections}}, even {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://093259C4-1C5F-4AD8-A71A-8F6E6B7BB401"}}{\fldrslt calling on local councils to help}} the governments recent and projected schemes. \
This scheme will have been a lifeline for those what were able to benefit, but they don\'92t go far enough. T{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://3C16064F-AC65-4491-A2B6-CAAA09B077BB"}}{\fldrslt he stock of 200,000 laptops is a shortfall of 63% compared to the 540,000 children eligible for the scheme}}. Nor will any infrastructure projects be quick enough to have an effect on coronavirus recovery. The lead times are just too long. So, thought this entire period, children\'92s educations and adults ability to work and contribute to the economy is being compromised.\
To stimulate the recovery and to create a bulwark agains future crises, how far should we push the trend of investment in connectivity? The Labour Party made one such proposal in their 2019 manifesto \'96 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5076F7F8-FCBF-4AE4-91F7-0691B2BBF443"}}{\fldrslt providing free, fast broadband to everyone in the UK}}. This was a tacit acknowledgment that adequate internet connectivity is a utility for which availability should be protected. Paid for by appropriately taxing big-tech companies, the policy would prevent anyone from being cut off from the tether to the modern world. As mentioned, the other side of the coin is access to computing devices. One logical extension of the UK government\'92s free laptop policy would be that schools loan a device to every student. Schools have always provided books (or, inexplicably for someone born in the nineties, a slate and stylus) on which to show your working. A digital version of this might be born of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E2D5C059-44EF-4C27-80A5-99720D761FC5"}}{\fldrslt existing paper tablet technology}}, making it simple and cheap to ensure students are fully equipped \'96 much the same as anyone working in an office is today.\
Any \'91free internet\'92 would no doubt come with conditions: data allowances, streaming restrictions, et al. It is however far easier to \'91unlock\'92 latent potential by removing conditions in a time of crisis than it is to start building from scratch. Proactivity in this way is often the gatekeeper to other benefits. An online-first approach to school would perhaps democratise schooling such that a more wealthy postcode doesn\'92t mean a better education. The ability to work remotely would decimate commutes, instantly creating more hours in a day, cutting pollution and saving thousands in fares, fuel and parking. Taking a leaf out of the \'91digital nomad\'92 playbook, people would move to live where they want, not where they must, untethering wealth for regional hubs and distributing it more evenly across the country. Aside from ensuring that business as usual can continue in times of stress these secondary benefits carry enough weight that they should give pause to anyone that would dismiss the idea out of hand.}