{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 iAWriterQuattroS-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\b\fs36 Analysis framework\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 When examining futures, it\'92s useful to consider the futures cone. This is a model related to (if not based on) light cones; the set of all possible events that we can possibly effect. The futures cone conveniently categorises potential futures with a taxonomy well known among {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://79EA9D79-0027-4943-97A0-9A4F12593C6D"}}{\fldrslt futurists}}: projected, probable, plausible, possible, and preposterous. \
These \'91P futures\'92 radiate from the centre point of the cone\'92s cross section, in decreasing order of probability. Why is this useful? Well, the taxonomy allows us to ring fence the possibilities that lie at the intersection of writer Arthur C. Clarke and futurist Jim Dator\'92s second laws: \'93the only way of discovering the limits of the possible is to venture\'85 into the impossible\'94 and \'93any useful idea about the futures should appear to be {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2CB66620-08DB-4BBD-9082-7426A78F0231"}}{\fldrslt ridiculous}}. The implication, then, is that to accurately frame a situation and to gain valuable insight on how to affect that situation in the future, it is required that we engage in some preposterous thought experiments.\
The other way we\'92re going to break this down is with a PESTLE analysis. As we look at responses to the effects of COVID-19 through the lenses critical to our societal strategy \'96 political, economical, socio-cultural, technological, legal and environmental \'96 we should see some macro trends trends emerge. Taking these responses to the logical conclusion of their corresponding trends will be the vehicle leading us to our change concepts and ultimately a set of premises or opportunities that we can act on.}