{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 iAWriterQuattroS-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 In a turn of events so unexpected it warrants a \'91preposterous\'92 labelling all of its own, the UK government is paying over {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://866093FF-FF78-4779-AB4C-4AA8F30BB9E9"}}{\fldrslt 9 million people}} (c. 25% of UK workers) to do absolutely nothing, under the job retention scheme. Comparable schemes exist in Germany\'92s Kurzarbeirt, France\'92s chomage partial and the US\'92s FPUC. It\'92s a tenuous link to be sure, but some parallels can be drawn with the concept of universal basic income. The Spanish government aims to roll out UBI \'93{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://16F31959-DEA7-48C9-B612-0FFBC38D688E"}}{\fldrslt as soon as possible}}\'94. Even the pope floated the idea in his Easter address. Closer to home, Nicola Sturgeon said recently that UBI \'93is an idea that\'92s time has come\'94.\
The details of universal basic income can vary, but the core conceit is that an entire population is provided with a guaranteed income intended to cover basic needs such as housing and food. Unlike other welfare systems, this income is fixed for everyone \'96\'a0even if you\'92re employed. It certainly seems preposterous. Fortunately we already have data, courtesy of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5E8BEDF7-F8B8-4E33-A5EE-D6852733CE16"}}{\fldrslt Finland}}, for how UBI might pan out were it to be implemented. After a two-year trial run specifically designed to provide actionable results the trial found modest improvements to employment rates much improved mental wellbeing. Interestingly, some participants that chose to care for their families and neighbours or to volunteer felt that UBI legitimised their work choices. \
Shockingly, UBI could well be a bipartisan stance. A simplified benefits system with minimal bureaucracy speaks to a right-wing small government approach, while guaranteed social security resonates with a left-wing welfare state. It\'92s likely that the end of the job retention scheme in the UK is going to result in historic unemployment, soon to be compounded with the end of the Brexit transition period. With those probable futures ahead of us \'96 not to mention the recent history of 120,000 deaths correlating with a period of government {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://3A828C66-3621-4B56-B415-F8780677D220"}}{\fldrslt austerity}} \'96 seriously considering a welfare system that enshrines an adequate standard of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C5D41047-BAFF-4C32-A233-7E2B5C0EF643"}}{\fldrslt living}} must be a policy.}