{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 iAWriterQuattroS-Regular;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Key to an adequate standard of living, is an adequate standard of housing. Lockdown rules have had many transform their living spaces into makeshift classrooms, offices and gyms. That means not just a lot more time at home, but proportionately less ability to wind down at home. To escape for a change of scenery \'96 or perhaps to escape your cohabitants \'96 you might escape outdoors, to a garden or park. For many though, even that small relief is not an option. As a result, previously hidden inadequacies in our living conditions have been thrown into stark relief and must now be reckoned with.\
According to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1F3CD4E0-44B8-491C-870A-EFB936241B24"}}{\fldrslt government stats}}, overcrowding for renters has increased consistently for 20 years \'96\'a0up to 8% of social and 6% of private renters. The same report also records 12% of socially rented, 25% of privately rented and 17% of privately owned homes fail to meet the Decent Homes Standard. By any count those are unacceptably high stats for a minimum standard that was supposed to be met in 2010, after being announced a decade prior. Though I doubt any of this comes as much of a surprise for most renters (particularly those in London).\
So, millions are living in \'96 by our own government\'92s definition \'96 substandard living conditions. What does that mean? It\'92s hard to say for certain but higher risk of accidents at home, worsening mental health, increases in domestic abuse and higher chance of respiratory illnesses all correlate highly. The latter is especially concerning given the circumstances. The effect of lockdown is not unlike the effects of winter; people spend more time indoors, in close proximity. This allows illnesses to spread more virulently, to the tune of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://55597E30-530D-42F5-9B3B-1766DEC88649"}}{\fldrslt tens of thousands of excess deaths}} each year, the majority of which are caused by flu-like illnesses similar to COVID-19. Gives \'92cabin fever\'92 a somewhat deadlier meaning.\
And what of the homeless? It follows that if inadequate housing is detrimental that temporary and nonexistent housing is proportionately worse. Estimates by Crisis maintain that {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://96CFA2DD-5C58-42E6-901C-DF3FE979B4D9"}}{\fldrslt it is cheaper to house people than it is to leave them homeless}}, which is a fairly solid evidence for having a home being better than sleeping outdoors if any was needed.\
The result is that the UK government has been forced to offer {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://3426D5A6-436C-46AE-944B-94280E19F173"}}{\fldrslt greater protections to renters}} and even to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://FD45303E-4EED-427F-A4BC-ED91233E52DC"}}{\fldrslt house all rough sleepers}} i
\i n under 72 hours
\i0 . Likewise, San Francisco will move homeless people {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://130FC421-FBF9-4B94-B087-182C532E8207"}}{\fldrslt into hotels and shelter}}s. It seems inconceivable \'96 preposterous even \'96\'a0that you could end homelessness in 72 hours, yet that is the policy. Unfortunately it\'92s not a permanent policy, nor will it even last long enough to serve as useful research in the vein of Finland\'92s UBI experiment. But what if it did? If Crisis\'92 research is to be believed it would reduce both the human and fiscal costs.\
Pushing the boundaries one step further, could everyone be guaranteed an adequately sized Decent Home
\f1\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \'99
\f0\fs28 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 ? A growing trend is communal housing, or as it is more trendily known co-living. Typically targeted at young, urban, professionals and creatives these campus homes tend to be small en-suite aparthotel rooms, with shared communal spaces, events, lifestyle coaches, all amenities included and mid-century modern everything. It\'92s {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://78107824-7554-4A86-8BC1-458E3D2CD842"}}{\fldrslt typical}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E69ACCCF-2B5B-4A79-A07A-664D275243C6"}}{\fldrslt yuccie}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://4CCF7F8A-62BD-4398-9D30-B661F7DDE595"}}{\fldrslt fayre}}, but it\'92s not without value. It simplifies budgeting. The quality is high. Community is built in. Importantly, you have space to live and move and work. All the things COVID has already ushered into our living spaces. What\'92s more, if remote working becomes the norm, as it is expected to, and the need for so many office spaces and stores is lessened, these can be repurposed or redeveloped into affordable living spaces \'96 2020\'92s version of New York\'92s lofts and North/East London\'92s warehouses.}