{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 iAWriterQuattroS-Regular;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green15\blue15;\red153\green0\blue16;\red99\green99\blue99;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c7059\c7059\c7059;\cssrgb\c67059\c2353\c7451;\cssrgb\c46275\c46275\c46275;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs28 \cf0 The mortality \
\
\pard\tx9020\li720\fi-720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \ul \ulc0 \'a0	\ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs34 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Another approach is to make best use of the already-there. Ease the pressure on London and on some other mostly southern hotspots and reflate the many towns and cities that often have good housing stock, handsome if neglected high streets, a legacy of past investment in public amenities like parks and libraries, and access to beautiful countryside. Places roughly answering this description include Preston, Walsall, Sheffield, Plymouth, Colchester, Derby, Dundee, Hull, Wakefield and Wrexham, to name but a few. Such a shift would have the added environmental benefit of reducing the large costs in energy and carbon of a mass housebuilding programme.\
It\'92s been widely pointed out, especially since the pandemic started, that modern attitudes to cities have been closely linked to health. A century or so ago, for planning theorists from Ebenezer Howard to Le Corbusier, diseases such as tuberculosis made density a killer, and so cities had to be depopulated, their teeming streets replaced with green open spaces. Patrick Abercrombie\'92s {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/davehillblog/2014/mar/22/london-county-plan-abercrombie-forshaw"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Greater London Plan of 1944}} put these ideas into practice, directing that a large number of Londoners should be moved to healthy new towns.\
Once antibiotics had pushed back TB, the virtues of city life were reasserted. Jane Jacobs celebrated these virtues in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://archive.nytimes.com/www.nytimes.com/books/97/08/17/reviews/jacobs.html?mcubz=0"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\i \cf3 The Death and Life of Great American Cities}}
\f2\i  
\f1\i0 of 1961, after which it became the creed of right-thinking urbanists that the density and vibrancy of cities were to be encouraged. Theory was eventually put into practice with spectacular success, at least in economically powerful and good-looking cities including London and New York.\
Populations started growing after decades of decline, money poured in, shops and restaurants boomed, property prices soared, derelict buildings were done up. The 1980s phrase \'93inner-city deprivation\'94 gave way to the estate agents\'92 buzz-term \'93urban lifestyle\'94. The term \'93world cities\'94 came into use in the 1990s, to describe urban economies that were competing with rivals of a global scale for business and attractiveness. Cities were good. Big was good. Big cities were best.\
In the process something was lost. Supercharged property prices turned cities\'92 best features into commodities. If Jacobs talked of the \'93ballet of the street\'94 \'96 the choreography of people of different backgrounds and trades going about their lives in shared spaces \'96 it became hard to find in the sealed glass towers of the world cities\'92 newest real estate. It is more likely to be found in, well, streets, of which there are countless numbers across the country, not just in the most privileged metropolitan centres.
\fs24 \cf4 \

\fs34 \cf2 So the proposition is not to rush from dense city to atomised exurb. Rather it is to encourage an adjustment of priorities towards towns and cities in general. It is not about mass internal migration but about incremental change. Most people will stay where they are. Most people\'92s lives will not be transformed by remote working. But for at least some people, some of the time, the advantages of online interactions will outweigh the disadvantages. It might mean that you only need to visit a big-city office once a week, for example, rather than every day.\
It should be possible to imagine that Person A decides that the possibility of having a house and a garden outweighs the attractions of the big city. The development of remote working makes this a little more possible. Perhaps there are enough people like her to form a social network in her area, perhaps she persuades some friends to join her. Their choices might be influenced by the rediscovery, during the lockdown, of activities that don\'92t require a sophisticated urban pleasure dome within easy reach: cooking, talking to family or friends, going to shops that are not supermarkets, tending a garden, online socialising and entertainment. They might be less driven than before by the prestige and desirability of a metropolis.\
Perhaps they work for companies who see the benefits of helping their employees live like this, or who spread their operations around regional bases more than they would have done previously. Perhaps they make an empty shop into a shared workspace and meeting place. A cafe, you could call it. Perhaps this helps to bring some life back to a high street. They would not be moving into a void, but into an existing set of businesses and activities, with which they could be mutually supportive.\
Such a shift won\'92t happen all by itself. Successful high streets, as the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.centreforcities.org/high-streets"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Centre for Cities thinktank}} has shown, are symptoms of more general strengths in local economies. Brighton, York and Cambridge were doing just fine before the pandemic, and are the most likely places to bounce back; Newport, Bradford and Wigan less so. It will, as well as the resourcefulness of individuals and companies, require some positive contributions from government.}