{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 iAWriterQuattroS-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 It\'92s been widely suggested in the UK media that it we\'92ll see a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5803647B-FCF8-4632-8C01-81E2B7218B26"}}{\fldrslt \'91four-hour wait\'92 to board flights after the coronavirus pandemic}}. Although a somewhat sensationalised headline given that\'a0arriving at the airport 2\'963 hours early is expected for most flights, it\'92s not unreasonable to expect extended waits in airports as more safety hurdles are erected. Airports then, the quintessential testing grounds for interior architecture, will need to adapt the way they curate their spaces for the safety, entertainment and trust of their various inhabitants.\
In the short term entry to airports is likely to be restricted to passengers to reduce both congestion and contagion. Once inside, travellers may be monitored for feverish temperatures using thermal cameras and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://02E7532B-003F-4ACF-B3CC-2DE468093F67"}}{\fldrslt screened before being approved}} for travel. Widespread adoption of contactless check-ins and bag drops, typically reserved for larger international hubs, will protect the wellbeing of airport staff. Indeed as long as concerns over health trump concerns over privacy \'96 and likely indefinitely into the future \'96 travellers should expect judicious use of surveillance and biometrics.\
The retail mix inside the airport too will need to adapt. The bells tolling for the high street ring too for airports, terminals having become shopping microcosms due to the duty free shopping centres embedded in each. As the upcoming recession curtails frivolous spending ever further, the rental trouble befalling the likes of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D5A81B30-8502-4556-A50A-1CA7833CAB0A"}}{\fldrslt intu}} will reach airports as outlets struggle to make rent. Units not recycled into leisure spaces (in which to pass the extended waits) may transform into additional lounges, should the additional capacity be required. The more technology facilitates safer travel, the more airlines and airports alike will look to invest in their digital capabilities. \
Keeping travellers separated, while ensuring they do not miss their flights will be a key challenge. Mobile apps, additional screens, or even restaurant-style pagers will free travellers from schooling nervously around departure boards; a silver lining that should outlast the virus. Not even boarding will go unaltered. To minimise contact flights will begin to board back to front. While slightly more efficient than current methods, priority boarding is a serious income generator in an industry with tight margins. Compounded by the fact that most seats will need to be empty to maintain social distancing, price hikes are all but unavoidable. \
Suffice to say, as long as the threat of COVID-19 lingers, travel by air will be far less appealing than it has been. According to a recent YouGov survey, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B6D5946B-A0E2-4FE4-959B-B7332BA9976E"}}{\fldrslt roughly a third of people who planned to travel abroad have changed their mind}}. For countries with contiguous neighbours, this likely means an uptick in other modes of leisure travel, such as road trips and interrailing. On an island nation such as the UK however, \'91staycations\'92 will be the holiday du jour. Staycations (another snippet of 2008 newspeak) are of net benefit for the UK, which spend more on tourism than it earns. Fortunately so, as investment in our rural locations is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E65D10F2-E8EB-470C-9EDA-AFB494575682"}}{\fldrslt sorely lacking}}. Putting these locations back on the map so to speak by shifting cash from the pockets of city dwellers and start-ups keen to follow {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B2264EA6-6518-482F-A84C-640FD2FE73DD"}}{\fldrslt Go Glamping}}\'92s 2008 success into neglected economies has the potential revitalise long overlooked regions and put their needs in the spotlight.}