{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 iAWriterQuattroS-Regular;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 One such step has been to minimise single use plastics, e.g. drinking straws and plastic bags. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D02B941B-10BF-499F-A66C-B2BEB88D191F"}}{\fldrslt The number of plastic bags dispensed in the UK decreased by 85% within six months of introducing a 5p charge}} and has continued to drop since. That trend however has been disrupted.\
Some US states, including {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1A1F50E3-A817-4F55-B249-52B97319A113"}}{\fldrslt California}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A618E0DC-8AD6-4AD6-82C1-C19C6A86262F"}}{\fldrslt New York}}, have already introduced temporary measures lifting restrictions on plastic bags. According to California Gov. Gavin Newsome, \'93It is critical to protect the public health and safety and minimize the risk of COVID-19 exposure for workers engaged in essential activities, such as those handling reusable grocery bags.\'94 A noble take, though one biased perhaps by industry lobbying according to Jennie Romer of the Surfrider Foundation, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://4C852CC0-A05A-45E7-BD2D-E362BB5C2AF9"}}{\fldrslt talking to VICE News Tonight}}. Indeed the plastics industry has been funding research into the health risks of reusable plastic bags since at least {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://834F9C3C-8C0D-4E97-9A50-8FC3D1D793B0"}}{\fldrslt 2011}}.\
What of other single use plastics, such as those used for food consumption? In a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://0A9A127F-5A02-4A9A-B602-7F5518162DC4"}}{\fldrslt leaked document from the CDC}} obtained by The AP, restaurants and bars were to be encouraged to use \'91disposable food service items\'92 such as tableware.\
It\'92s easy too to think of other reasons for an increased demand in plastics, masks, gloves et al. So where does that leave us for the future? Materials scientists have made great strides in creating alternatives to unsustainable materials such as plastic and concrete. Parallelling the mainstream popularity of meat alternatives from the likes of Beyond Meat and Impossible Foods following an increase in high-profile veganism, increased commitment to movements like Zero Waste could attract investors to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://BC985CF8-F272-4B88-ABE0-AA72A81DD501"}}{\fldrslt mycelium}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://25A8CA72-B1F7-43AD-A70A-137A4FF438A5"}}{\fldrslt post-consumer composites}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://AD53BDF4-7E2E-4D84-BCCA-21E6DE64253D"}}{\fldrslt industrial byproducts}}, finally making sustainable materials commonplace.
\f1\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
}