{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 iAWriterQuattroS-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 While many of the 
\i \'91nature is healing\'92
\i0  viral posts on social media are {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B72F0D78-7A04-4F8A-84E5-D3CAD60CA0E1"}}{\fldrslt misinformed}}, it is true that wildlife is returning to human-dominated spaces. There\'92s {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://451EC0CE-6987-4905-80ED-181A89950E45"}}{\fldrslt sheep in Turkey}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B09388A6-B114-4F2E-94FF-14CE462DFCD9"}}{\fldrslt coyotes in San Francisco}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://AFCA2C90-4DDD-4C1B-A167-DA8CA5A786E0"}}{\fldrslt boars in Barcalona}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5A39CB6B-1B62-42F3-B261-0FEC02B918C2"}}{\fldrslt goats in Wales}} and a host of other delightful zoological juxtapositions. Of course these incursions wouldn\'92t be possible if the animal populations weren\'92t there to begin with. Efforts to return ecosystems to historical states have begun to bear fruit in recent years, with the UK recently hatching its first stork chicks in{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://BF465EC8-8326-4E52-B1B8-9C53FFF5204B"}}{\fldrslt  over 600 years}}. Beaver{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://05299E15-174E-4868-AADE-D673D9B916E3"}}{\fldrslt s too have returned}} after a 400 year hiatus and a significant proportion of the population would even like to see predators such as wolves, bears and{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://6F103BB3-94E6-45DF-B8B2-AC453D65468E"}}{\fldrslt  lynx reintroduced}} to the isles. It\'92s clear we have a fascination and a passion for cooexistence. Interestingly, most of these reports come from developed nations who subjugated the wild years ago, so the novelty factor can not be discounted. \
Unfortunately it\'92s not all Snow White singing in the woods. Nations that conserve their flora and fauna have found themselves at much higher risk of increased illegal activities such as {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B1184AEB-EC1C-4D7A-8012-21B1749D392F"}}{\fldrslt poaching}}, mining and logging. As much of the funding for conserving indigenous wildlife is reliant on the tourism industry, which has plummeted since COVID-19 took hold, they are currently without the financial backing required to keep operating. Many zoos, which serve as breeding and research hubs, are suffering from the same problem and at risk of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E79CFC49-DE27-43A4-A20C-8C05CD8B8DFA"}}{\fldrslt shutting their doors permanently}}. On both counts some sort of intervention is required.\
Ultimately, wildlife\'92s respite from human activity will be all too brief. Shops will open again. Travel and tourism will fire back up. Scientific research must continue. Though our anthropocentric worldview be rocked, lasting change depends on our heightened consideration of the natural world being maintained. Capitalising on sentiments brought to the fore by the Coronavirus pandemic is one such way to try elicit that change.\
Our existing appetite for rewilding could see special concessions for coexistence built into our infrastructure \'96 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://44023A73-139E-4069-A9C3-DB28CEA9F40E"}}{\fldrslt green roofs}} and corridors, wildlife crossings, vertical gardens, et al \'96 so that animal and human habitats can cross over symbiotically. On a small scale, destinations such as Centre Parcs have been doing this for years, indeed the attraction of it is their entire business model. Importing this mindset into large-scale and existing human habitats is an extreme undertaking, but a necessity if we are ever to make cities sustainable. At quite the other extreme, rewilding could see more protected zones, where animal populations can recover outside of human influence. One has to look only to the reports on wildlife the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone \'96 effectively Europe\'92s largest nature preserve \'96 which for all intents and purposes, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F3B6847B-D996-4D51-991A-72A19CD7E964"}}{\fldrslt appear to be thriving}}.\
Implementing and maintaining green spaces will require new ideas about management and funding to make the concepts viable. Fortunately initiatives such as the Heritage Fund\'92s {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://91F20551-5049-4888-B456-A5BC2C903939"}}{\fldrslt Future Parks Accelerator}} are already well placed to find answers to these very problems.\
While inviting animals into our built environments may seem deliriously fantastical, where {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://DD83B4C0-015C-4DBC-8A74-1E5C2E07F1C4"}}{\fldrslt similar coexistence efforts already exist}} the benefits have impact rarely seen outside of \'91disruptive\'92 tech. The simple presence of nature appears to incite a positive feedback-loop resulting in increased interest in eco-friendly activities. People and businesses alike, with support from local authorities and government policy, can train development planning to grow more sustainable over time. Should our newly considerate nature hold, our efforts would be rewarded with {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://870DAFE8-DED8-4A05-9FA9-9A0041791AFC"}}{\fldrslt decreased pollution, more energy efficient buildings, reconnect fragmented habitats and increased biodiversity}}.}