{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 iAWriterQuattroS-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Building on our need to reconfigure infrastructure for social distancing, many other aspects of our urban landscape may see a shift in usage.\
London has toyed for many years with the idea of pedestrianising Oxford Street. Over the years, Paris\'92 \'93{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://22B41F16-4FA7-43BE-A193-EA4029C74C22"}}{\fldrslt Day Without Cars}}\'94, Barcelona\'92s car-free \'93{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://0EBA331C-F905-4E83-A5E9-DFAAF4829311"}}{\fldrslt superblocks}}\'94 and China\'92s plan to build a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://83592C36-C551-4EDB-BC85-26BE4EEBBD70"}}{\fldrslt car-free city}} have tested the waters of pedestrianisation. Now, handing the roads over to pedestrians might just happen. How better to maintain foot traffic while ensuring a 2 metre safety envelope around each person? In fact, an area of Central London at least covering at least the Square Mile is already set to become a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B66C01E5-BD62-40B9-B3E0-C62A7E01FD2C"}}{\fldrslt no-car zone}}. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://3C7A768F-DA11-48DE-9444-BFA7D3DBA622"}}{\fldrslt Milan}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://74362710-24DB-4D60-A51B-820638CA5E56"}}{\fldrslt Oakland}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://667118DE-881F-48EC-8FB7-8ED945560F8D"}}{\fldrslt Seattle}} are just a few of the other cities responding to COVID-19 with pedestrianisation plans. The drive to eliminate motor traffic in cities is catching on the world over.\
An interesting corollary emerging from these responses relates to the speed at which they have been implemented. A unique opportunity has presented itself to fast-track plans and much like the agile \'91industry disruptors\'92 of Silicon Valley, acting now and adapting to changing circumstances will drive us to better solutions, faster. With any luck, and effective community engagement, people will like the changes and ask that they become permanent rather than be reverted.\
It is of course inevitable that traffic will increase once again. It\'92s up to us to decide how fast, how much and how welcome it is. It can\'92t be taken for granted that public transport isn\'92t the answer it so often is. Aside from the fact that capacity on busses and tubes in London will be reduced to around 12\'9615%, who wants to be stuck inhaling recycled breath in a pandemic? No, people will opt for personal transport. The goal then, must be to make biking and walking more attractive to commuters and landlopers. Following the National Association of City Transport Officials\'92 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D28E6414-F6C3-4366-906E-BF0BF9CBDBD7"}}{\fldrslt recommendations}},  that\'92s likely to translate into more roll lanes, slow streets and extended sidewalks. Competition among app-based bike hires is likely to jump, driving prices down and pushing more innovations like dockless parking and map integrations. Scooters, skateboards and other more novel mobility devices might too see a spike in interest. As well they should, as research by the UK {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8BA09528-4E3E-45B4-B3BF-EBEE4AE0D1F8"}}{\fldrslt Centre for Research into Energy Demand Solutions}} indicates that the best thing individuals can do to reduce their personal carbon-footprint is leaving the car behind in favour of \'91smart mobility\'92. \
It\'92s been nearly 100 years since E. B. Lefferts and the Automobile Club of California\'92s campaign of ridicule bullied \'91jaywalkers\'92 (some vintage newspeak there) into {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9498CCC1-D53E-463F-9DAB-A47CB5D273BE"}}{\fldrslt giving up streets}}. One would hope we have moved on since then. We well know that \'91human-powered transport\'92 has numerous benefits, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://535A165D-30CF-4F39-810B-F7787664FE1D"}}{\fldrslt better health}}, better mental focus, quieter, pollution free, fewer traffic accidents. We have {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B938842A-FC75-45AA-AD5D-ED8EF4153C86"}}{\fldrslt research}} linking air pollution in cities to higher COVID-19 deaths. And we have {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E41EDB2F-2608-4D80-8743-782D547792A4"}}{\fldrslt measurements}} correlating air pollution with vehicle traffic. Perhaps then, we have everything we need to turn the clock back on our relationship with transport. The {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://83C72FA4-B90A-43EC-A02C-9550D8E8F41C"}}{\fldrslt bustle of 1920\'92s streets}} has more utopian feel to it than our current cities anyway.}