{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 iAWriterQuattroS-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 At the onset of the coronavirus pandemic, and for many weeks after, supermarket shelves were barren. Stockpilable goods \'96 tinned tomatoes, pasta, toilet paper \'96 were hard to come by. Mothers wept in aisles unable to buy baby formulae. The broadcast narrative is that \'91selfish buyers\'92 were remorselessly \'91panic buying\'92 leaving nothing for others, though the data tells another story. Empirical evidence from market insights firm Kantar shows shoppers buying only a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://645A8D9B-F71B-4D7A-A6BB-FC37D5B01D1B"}}{\fldrslt little more per shop}}, just a little more frequently. Reasonable behaviour, completely consistent with the needs of a population expecting to be spending less time eating out. That\'92s not to say egregious doomsday prepping didn\'92t happen, but newspaper coverage was certainly disproportionate to the facts \'96 and likely fuelled more of the behaviour. The question begged then, is why are major supermarkets so susceptible to unexpected demand? And how should they become more resilient?\
Typically retailers can reliably predict demand (think Easter and Christmas), from years of stock tracking, loyalty card and other data. Coupled with well-connected distribution centres in the East Midlands \'91Golden Triangle\'92, UK supermarkets can transport stock to most of the country in a matter of hours. This system has worked near invisibly since the late 70\'92s \'96 proof of it\'92s efficacy \'96 when a faltering economy required supermarkets to \'91pivot\'92 to more cost-effective models. Instead of keeping their stock \'91in the back\'92 they moved it to central warehouses; downsizing stores and saving money on rent. This is normally beneficial for shoppers; as the price-hikes seen in Tesco Metro and Sainsbury\'92s Local stores can attest to, the customer typically foots the bill for higher rents. The system is only visible to us now it is under strain. Retailers are ordering extra stock, but they can\'92t store it on-site, nor can they get it on shelves fast enough. Distribution centres can\'92t transport stock fast enough to meet demand so while available stock is running low, they don\'92t have the space to get more in. And so on up the supply chain.\
The problem is compounded with complexities like shelf-life and volume.\
Bread can\'92t be left on a shelf for long, milk needs refrigerating, bulky packs of toilet paper don\'92t leave space in lorries for much else. And on top of that, supermarkets are unable to meet demand for home delivery, as online shops are fulfilled by picking items off shelves in nearby stores.\
So what solutions exist? Well, some supermarkets 
\i have
\i0  displayed more resiliency already. Value chains like Lidl and Aldi have taken the principles of efficiency from the 70\'92s to their logical conclusions to provide value for money. One such example is range. With fewer product lines, and fewer variations in those lines, you can support a larger quantity of a given stock. Other retailers may adopt a similar principle, for instance stocking only a few types of pasta, to shape demand. Special offers and loyalty schemes too can direct shoppers to the products supermarkets have more control over, e.g. using local suppliers instead of those abroad. \
On visiting a value supermarket you\'92ll likely notice the unconventional way stock is displayed; often on pallets or crates. By eschewing visual merchandising and treating the shop floor more like a warehouse, restocking take a fraction of the time it otherwise would. For many brands and customers alike this aspect is off-putting to say the least; though there\'92s no need to throw the baby out with the bath water. Ikea\'92s \'91{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9BBDABB2-F4B8-4843-AA4E-1092ECAE6C0F"}}{\fldrslt Marketplace}}\'92 floor exists as a liminal space between shop floor and warehouse, exuding the best qualities of both. Retailers could do worse than to take a leaf out of Ikea\'92s book. Argos\'92 catalog store model may be equally attractive for some stores, particularly while social distancing is in place.\
To alleviate the transport bottlenecks, manufacturers and distributers that typically serve the now-closed restaurants and bars could deliver direct to supermarkets, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://88FA1F04-4FF8-47C8-A4CF-CF952B4EA617"}}{\fldrslt or even customers}}, cutting out the middle-man. Those logistically and technologically equipped to do so will have a head start, though {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://008C57A9-273C-4EA9-9E8B-C1D7FB8155D3"}}{\fldrslt working groups}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://87565C39-C849-4AC8-B05E-D7FB9536C725"}}{\fldrslt legislation}} have already sprung up to break down the barriers to collaboration.\
Supermarket logistics are seeing their biggest shakeup in two generations. As retailers and distributors shift gear into forward thinking logistic practices \'96 not to mention the potential of autonomous vehicles and warehouses \'96 the new normal has some interesting opportunities in store.}